Update col macro and pins (#19)
deathtothecorporation/plunder-docs: sire/advanced.md

> Bar > Bar > Nat > Bit
```

First parameter is a bar (`needle`), second parameter is a bar (`haystack`), third parameter is a nat (`off`, for offset) and the function returns a bit (boolean).

## Lambdas

- `&`  Anonymous lambda
- `?`  Named lambda
- `??` Named and pinned lambda (Pinning has to do with memory layout. Don't worry about it too much for now, but you'll come across it in source files)

> For example, here's `&` used infix:

Author: Very good to introduce the lambda example (in concert with demonstrating prefix + infix) as a tee-up to col explanation.

```sire
| map x&(add x | mul x 2) [0 1 2]
[0 3 6]
```

And here it's used prefix:

```sire
| foreach [0 1 2]
& x
| add x | mul x 2
[0 3 6]
```

Both `map` and `foreach` do the same thing, they just accept their arguments in different orders. `map` takes a function and then a row, while `foreach` takes a row and then a function.

## Col macro

Using `&` prefix in the way we just did is quite uncommon in practice. We have a macro called `:` (pronounced "col") which does the same thing in one line less:

```sire
: x < foreach [0 1 2]
| add x | mul x 2
[0 3 6]
```

This macro-expands into exactly the same code as the version with `&`. The only difference is that it feels more like an assignment.

It's worth thinking about the shape of this a little bit more. If we had types, the type of `foreach` would be `Row a -> (a -> b) -> Row b`.
So `foreach` takes two arguments, a row and a function. We can clearly see this in the version that uses `&`: the first argument is the row `[0 1 2]` and the second argument spans lines 2 and 3.

> But when we write it using the col macro, it *feels* as if we're only giving `foreach` a single argument, the row. And then somehow it *feels* as if `foreach` *returns* an `x` which we can use in the "loop body". In reality there is no loop body, and we're still passing a function as a second argument. But in many situations, this assignment-like syntax ends up communicating the intent much more clearly.

Author: This is the best explanation of the col macro i've seen so far. I think you may have said this aloud to me before, but reading it is even better.

### Syscall continuations

For architectural reasons, it's quite common for us to want a value that represents "the rest of the program". For example, after a cog wakes up from a syscall, it needs to know what to do with the result. The natural way to express this is by using a continuation function (very similar to callback functions, which you might be familiar with).

> For example, a cog that only gets the current time and then terminates would look like this:

Author: :+1: for using a cog and syscalls in the example. ("doing things with the system")

> ## Col macro

Reviewer: It feels like this section would benefit from more of a framing instead of jumping straight into an example?

Author: How do you feel about line 39?

Reviewer: I like it!

```
; the 'syscall' function takes two arguments:
; - a request type of TIME_WHEN ("give me the current system time" in this case)
; - a continuation function
; we want to pass an argument to **the continuation** also, so
; we use & to define an anonymous lambda with one argument, "now" which
; is the result of the TIME_WHEN current time system call.
;
| syscall TIME_WHEN
& now
;
; We are in the body of the continuation function here and have the "now"
; binding included in scope. Once again we're seeing the continuation-passing
; style here.
```

"Col" as in "colon"

```sire
: a < foo x
; the rest of the computation below.
; a is in scope here
```

> `foo x` is the function call. We can imagine its type signature would be `foo : x -> y -> i`, in which case we would notice that it accepts a second argument `y`. When the final argument to a function is a continuation _and we want to pass arguments to the continuation_, using the col macro is a way to do continuation passing that _feels_ like assignment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`foo x` is the function call. We can imagine its type signature would be `foo : a -> (b -> c) -> d`, in which case we would notice that it accepts a function as its second argument. When the final argument to a function is a continuation function, using the col macro is a way to do continuation passing that _feels_ like assignment.
```

- Clarify the type signature so that it's clear that the second argument is a function.
- We don't want to pass arguments to the continuation. `foo` might do that, but we just pass the continuation to `foo` and let it deal with how to use it.

`a` will be bound to the result of `foo x` and will be passed as the argument to `foo`'s final parameter, which is the rest of the code below it.

We'll use `gen` for examples (`gen` was covered in the [standard library](/sire/standard-library.md))

We previously saw gen used like this:
```sire
gen 10 | mul 2
[0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18]
```

Here it is with col:

```sire
: index < gen 5
| mul index 2
[0 2 4 6 8]
```

The same goal achieved with an anonymous lambda:

```sire
| gen 5
& i
| mul i 2

[0 2 4 6 8]
```

> Here's an example with `maybeCase`, which we also saw earlier. Remember, `maybeCase` takes three arguments: a maybe, a default guard value to return when the value is NONE, and a function to call on the value when it is SOME. In this example, that final function is the continuation we want to handle legibly with the col macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example with `maybeCase`, which we also saw earlier. Remember, `maybeCase` takes three arguments: a maybe, a default guard value to return when the maybe is NONE, and a function to call on the contained value when the maybe is SOME. In this example, that final function is the continuation we want to handle legibly with the col macro.
```

Be consistent about what's "the value" and what's "the maybe" and avoid ambiguous pronouns.

```sire
maybeNine=(SOME 9)
: isItNine < maybeCase maybeNine {wasn't nine}
| inc isItNine

; returns:
10

maybeNine=NONE
: isItNine < maybeCase maybeNine {wasn't nine}
| inc isItNine

; returns:
{wasn't nine}
```

The same written with an anonymous lambda:

```sire
maybeNine=(SOME 9)
| maybeCase maybeNine {wasn't nine}
& isItNine
| inc isItNine

10

maybeNine=NONE
| maybeCase maybeNine {wasn't nine}
& isItNine
| inc isItNine

{wasn't nine}
```

> This might look trivial (after all, you could have written `maybeCase (SOME 9) wasn't nine} inc` and arrived at `10` without using the col macro). But what if you don't have a simple function like `inc` to call? To drive the point home a bit more: Notice that in the next example, the remainder of the continued computation is acting on `actuallyNine` without having to use a let binding or order the function application pipeline strangely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might look trivial (after all, you could have written `maybeCase (SOME 9) {wasn't nine} inc` and arrived at `10` without using the col macro). But what if you don't have a simple function like `inc` to call? To drive the point home a bit more: Notice that in the next example, the remainder of the continued computation is acting on `actuallyNine` without having to use a let binding or order the function application pipeline strangely.
```
